Thesis Outline 
Organization of retinal ganglion cell axons in the developing mouse retinogeniculate pathway

1. Introduction
	i. History of axon guidance, how is specificity in neural circuitry established?
	ii. Basics of axon guidance/chemoaffinity - focus on how axon guidance has divvied up the system into soma, intermediate targets, and final targets. 
	iii. Are axons organized in their tracts? Three modes have been identified.
		a. Chronotopy
		b. Topography
		c. Typography
	iv. What mechanisms guide axon tract organization?
		a. Extrinsic Modes
			- midline choice points, intermediate targets, guidepost cells
			- glia, ECM
		b. Intrinsic Modes
			- heterotypic fasciculation
			- homotypic fasciculation
			- activity
	v. What is the relevance of pre-target tract organization?
	vi. Is there pre-target sorting of binocular RGC axons in the mouse OT? Outline project

2. Ipsilateral and contralateral RGC axons are segregated in the developing mouse retinogeniculate pathway
	i. Introduction
		a. Chronotopy
		b. Topography
		c. Typography
	ii. Results
		a. Ipsi axons are organized in the optic nerve and tract
		b. Ipsi and contra axons are segregated from each other in the tract
		c. Eye-specific axon organization is shifted slightly from the topographic map in the optic tract
	iii. Discussion 

3. Fasciculation Behavior of ipsi and contra axons
	i. Introduction
		a. Fasciculation typically only considered in pioneer/follower axon paradigm
		b. Current work on fasciculation in axon guidance - luxey, jaworski
		c. Anecdotes in lab of greater ipsi fasciculation
	ii. Results
		a. Higher resolution images of ipsi and contra fibers from tract labeling experiments?
		b. In vitro approach: describe
		c. VT neurites have a greater intrinsic tendency to self-fasciculate in vitro 
		d. Extrinsic cues from dissociated chiasm cells shifts both VT and DT neurites to form thicker bundles, but does not eliminate the intrinsic preference of VT neurites to self-associate
	iii. Discussion
		a. A note on the potential for this assay to be used to test other candidate molecules

4. A role for EphB1 in tract organization and fasciculation
	i. Introduction
		a. EphB1 is an ipsi molecule, mediates midline repulsion
		b. Loss of EphB1 leads to ipsi reduction
		c. EphB1 as a model to link midline choice, tract order, and targeting
	ii. Results
		a. Aberrant fasciculation of the remaining ipsi fibers in the tract of EphB1-/- mice (in vivo tract labeling data) and some ipsi axons stray
		b. A role for EphB1 in fasciculation behavior of ipsi neurites: EphB1 culture experiments show VT preference for fasciculation remains, but is reduced relative to WT
		c. EphB1+Sert: aberrantly crossing EphB1-null axons still associate with the ipsilateral tract
	iii. Discussion

5. Discussion and Conclusions
	i. Extent of Order in the Retinogeniculate Path
	ii. Fasciculation is one mechanism, and EphB1 may be involved
	iii. Integrity of cohort-association in tract may be important for reaching the correct subtarget

6. Materials and Methods
	i. Animals
	ii. Labeling and IHC
	iii. In Vitro retinal explant methodology
	iv. Imaging
	vi. Analysis, stats

7. Appendix I: Eye-specific tract organization in other mutants
	i. PlexinA1
	ii. Tag1
	iii. Protocadherin tri-cluster mutants
	iv. Linx
	v. Unc5c

8. Appendix II: ClearT and ClearT2 

9. Appendix III: Alternative approaches to the in vitro assay

10. Appendix IV: Glia in the tract